Linuxrip 0.095

Version history:

0.01: Initial release
0.02: Added nfo create capabilities
0.021: Fixed a few minor bugs, improved file scheme switching method and added a tag switch for the standard file naming scheme(anon is standard)
0.022: Fixed a small bug in the interactive mode. (genre could not be chosen)
0.03: Added ripping to single flac file and cue sheet
0.031: Fixed a few minor bugs
0.032: Fixed a minor bug
0.033: Added wavpack replaygain support and added a md5convert script(convert "filename md5" style into "md5 *filename" style, if that doesn't make sense than don't use it)
0.034: (Back)slashes were not handled properly, fixed that as far as i can tell
0.040: Added ogg vorbis support
0.041: First letter of tags choice(capital letter or not). script now asks if you are happy with the changes of album information you made
0.042: Now shows artist, tracknames, etc after changing them
0.043: Added the option(default now) to let cdparanoia read the amount of tracks, which doesn't include data tracks by default
0.044: Fixed a bug in cdparanoia track detection for non-'/dev/cdrom' drives and added an option to add a ripper tag(nfo) and a drive name tag(nfo and xml)
0.050: Added a switch which allows to manually edit information from cddb (if the person fucked one song up and everything shifts a position, normally that would 
	be a lot of work). Also added a new filename scheme upon request, since it had spaces in the names it was more work than expected(adding the filescheme was easy, 
       the needed change to deal with spaces not), so also a bit of code change.
0.060: Replaced retry system, no longer do two pairs need to match, but just two is enough. Warning is givin at the end if a track needed more than 2 tries.
       Added a rex(a ripping guide which uses eac, this is made in the same spirit) switch which checks for one or two settings
0.061: Second filescheme general filename(for xml, m3u, etc files) now defaults to album.extension if bigger than 60 characters(turnover point can be changed).
       Added support for multiple drives, drive and ripper selection at startup. Also some bugfixes.
0.062: Fixed some minor bugs and typos.
0.063: log and nfo are now also embedded as tags for flac and ogg vorbis, the rest not, because i lack a working apev2 command line tag editor
0.064: added a verbose option for the ripping and fixed a few minor bugs
0.065: added 'leo' flag, it adds a tag in the folder and in the log.
	LEO stands for Lossless Exact Original.
0.070: Added support for flake (a new flac encoder). 
	Fixed a bug with adding notes.
	Introduced an automatic system for having words that start with capital letters (minus a list of words that remain lowercase).
	Improved yes/no question handling, should be error robust now.
	Added mp3(lame) support for those who have portables which need it. Files are mp3gained for that reason (as opposed to just replaygained).
	Removed (broken) single flac ripping.
0.071: Added external settings.
	Added Makefile and made the script able to be installed into (hopefully) proper places in the filesystem.
0.080: Ripping and encoding now happens simultaniously.
	Fixed some minor bugs.
0.081: Improved cddb system, so multiple results don't default to the first one.
	Added a lock system, to prevent multiple encodes at the same time.
	Fixed a bug causing premature replaygaining, if last file was done, but another was not.
0.082: You can now choose your text editor.
	Basic support for single flac+cue sheet ripping was added
0.090: Added support for cue sheets with multiple flac files, please test if it works well.
	Removed an unnecesary warning message.
	Added a third filescheme.
	Added a rename script which is called with "rename <folderlocation>", it uses the 00 - foldername minus [FLAC] and any {*} components for the moment, ignore it if you don't know what it is.
0.091: Fixed a bug in the cue sheet handling when there are no pregaps (TITLE appeared twice)
0.092: Nfo file no longer embedded.
	You can now choose to keep logs files and if you want to embed them (for lossy and/or lossy files)
	Support for postrips commands excecuted from the rip folder
0.093: fixed a cddb bug (related to freedb2.org syntax)
0.094: The tag scanning and modifying component (add capitital letters and stuff like that) has been redone in c++.
0.095: Hopefully fixed the makefile this time.


Note: Please read all the config options at the beginning of the linuxrip file, even the optional settings.

Todo: Make a better readme

Nothing i know of at the moment.

Requirements:
cdparanoia
cd-discid
nano
wget
bc

Optional requirements: (you'll need at least one set of encoder and replaygain tool)
cdda2wav
flac
metaflac
mppenc
replaygain
wavpack
wvgain
oggenc
vorbisgain
lame
mp3gain
cdspeed
cdrdao

Make sure that all commands that you want are in the path and can be called from a random terminal.
Try the commands in a terminal in case of uncertainty.

Linuxrip can be called with linuxrip from a random position.
Don't forget to edit the settings in /etc/linuxrip

The o and O options that are set to zero by default are offset corrections.
They can be found under expert configuration both for cdparanoia and cdda2wav.
The value can be set by using the offset configuration switch.

Some variables are arrays to be set like this (arrays):

variable[1]='value'
variable[2]='value'

Notes:

Comment should be directed at the main author madman2003.